.TH ADJBACKLIGHT 1 ADJBACKLIGHT
.SH NAME
adjbacklight - Convenient method for adjusting the backlight on your portable computer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adjbacklight
(-c | -w | [-g | -s
.IR LEVEL
|
.IR LEVEL ]
[-a |
.IR DEVICE ...])
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B adjbacklight
can be used to fetch or set the backlight non-interactively.
If these feature is not used, it starts a interactive user
interface in the terminal.
.PP
.B adjbacklight
installs with the set-uid bit set, to enable any user to
change the backlight on the computer.
.PP
.B adjbacklight
was originally designed for small netbooks that are not running
.BR X .
However, it is still suitable for desktop computers and can
be used inside
.BR X .
In fact it seems to work for all machines with backlight, which
is not true for
.BR xbacklight (1).
.V adjbacklight
uses
.IR /sys/class/backlight .
.B adjbacklight
as been retrofitted to be convenient for use inside
.B X
on desktop computers, with commands that lets it be used
non-interactively with hotkeys set up in
.BR xbindkeys (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-copyright ,\  \-\-copying
Display copyright information.
.TP
.BR \-w, \  \-\-warranty
Display warranty disclaimer.
.TP
.BR \-a, \  \-\-all
Run for all devices, including ACPI devices.
.TP
.BR \-g, \  \-\-get
Get average brightness on devices.
.TP
.BR \-s, \   \-\-set \ \fILEVEL\fP[%]
Set brightness on devices.
.PP
.TP
.BR \+ \fILEVEL\fP
Increase brightness on devices by actual value.
.TP
.BR \- \fILEVEL\fP
Decrease brightness on devices by actual value.
.TP
.BR \= \fILEVEL\fP
Set brightness on devices by actual value.
.br
.TP
.BR \+ \fILEVEL\fP%
Increase brightness on devices by percentage-points.
.TP
.BR \- \fILEVEL\fP%
Decrease brightness on devices by percentage-points.
.TP
.BR \= \fILEVEL\fP%
Set brightness on devices by percentage-points.
.br
.TP
.BR \+ \fILEVEL\fP%%
Increase brightness on devices by percentage.
.TP
.BR \- \fILEVEL\fP%%
Decrease brightness on devices by percentage.
.TP
.BR \= \fILEVEL\fP%%
Set brightness on devices by percentage.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xbindkeys (1),
.BR xbacklight (1)
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(adjbacklight)\(aq
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the COPYING file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/adjbacklight/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org
